.\" Process with groff -man -Tascii unionimap.8
.\"
.TH UNIONIMAP 8 "September 2005" Linux
.SH NAME
unionimap \- a tool to manipulate Unionfs inode map files.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
.B unionimap
[
.I
-c
]
.I FORWARDMAP

.B unionimap
[
.I
-a FORWARDMAP
]
.I REVERSEMAP PATH

.B unionimap
[
.I
-d
]
.I MAP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unionimap
By default, Unionfs generates a different set of inode numbers each time you
mount a file system.  Additionally, the inode numbers used for reading
directories is different than those reported by stat.  This can confuse some
utilities, and prevents NFS exports from gracefully handing remounts or server
restarts.

To alleviate these problems, Unionfs supports persistent inode maps.  unionimap
is a utility that will generate the inode map files to be loaded at mount time
by Unionfs.  An inode map consists of two main components, a forward map which
translates Unionfs inode numbers to lower-level inode numbers and a lower-level
file system, and several reverse maps that are each associated with a single
lower-level file system.  Note that the maps are associated with file systems,
and not branches.  This means that if you have two branches on the same
lower-level file system, they use only a single reverse map.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-c"
create a forward map file.  This option takes the filename of the forward
map to create as an argument.  This file name can be the absolute path to the
file that you want to create or you can create it in the local directory and
then move it.

.IP "-a"
creates a reverse map file and adds it to a forward map file.  The -a flag
itself takes the forward map to add the new reverse map into.  The remaining
two arguments are the filename of the reverse map  and then a path to the file
system you wish to create the map for.  This will allow the map to have the
appropriate fsid for the file system that you are adding to the map.  If the
file system in question does not return a fsid (i.e., it returns 0 for that
value in stat), then one will be created based on the device's major and minor
numbers.

.IP "-d"
dump the contents of either a forward or reverse map.  Specify multiple
times for more output.  If -d is specified once, then the header information
for the map is printed.  If -d is specified twice, then the contents of the
map are also printed.  For a forward map the contents are keys of a Unionfs
inode number and the value is a pair of file system numbers and lower inode
numbers.  For the reverse map, the key is a lower-level inode number, and
the value is a Unionfs inode number.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLE

.TP
unionimap -c /tmp/foo.forward
Create a map named foo.forward in /tmp/
.TP
unionimap -a /tmp/foo.forward /tmp/foo.reverse /tmp/
Create a map named foo.reverse in /tmp using /tmp as the directory to build the
fsid from and add it to the forward map located in /tmp/foo.forward
.TP
unionimap -a /tmp/foo.forward /tmp/foo.reverse2 /n/other
Create a map named foo.reverse2 in /tmp using /n/other as the directory to
build the fsid from and add it to the forward map located in /tmp/foo.forward
.TP
unionimap -d /tmp/foo.forward
Display the header contents of /tmp/foo.forward
.TP
unionimap -d -d /tmp/foo.forward
Display the header and body contents of /tmp/foo.forward
.SH AUTHORS
Charles Wright <cwright@cs.sunysb.edu>,
David Quigley <dquigley@ic.sunysb.edu>,
Erez Zadok <ezk@cs.sunysb.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unionfs(4),
http://unionfs.filesystems.org/

\"  LocalWords:  groff Tascii unionimap Unionfs FORWARDMAP REVERSEMAP fsid TP
\"  LocalWords:  tmp Quigley Erez unionfs
